Practical Task 1

1)
Which 3 countries have the lowest gender wage gap?
    - Costa Rica
    - Belgium
    - Denmark

Which 3 countries have the highest gender wage gap?
    - Chile
    - Japan
    - Korea

How does the country with the lowest gender wage gap achieve that?

Costa Rica is achieving a low gender wage gap through means that can be divided into two categories. 
They take measures to make it easier to share paid and unpaid work equally among the parents and increase the pay for women's paid work (OECD, 2024).
Measures to share paid and unpaid work more easily include a better care system for children and elders, expanding parental leave from work and
educating people to decrease gender stereotypes.
Measures to increase the pay for women include a high quality education for each gender, promoting leadership positions and work in the STEM field to women,
supporting women led entrepreneurship and increasing safety for women.

Source:
OECD (2024), Gender Equality in Costa Rica: Towards a Better Sharing of Paid and Unpaid Work, Gender Equality at Work,
    OECD Publishing, Paris, https://doi.org/10.1787/a25e8f8a-en.

2)
Explain what is happening in the graph during March 2020 with regards to isopropanol sales.

Despite a slight downwards trend in the previous months, the trend for isopropanol sales sky rockets in March 2020.
This means that there is a sudden and strong upwards trend for the sales in March.
In the section shown, there is no sign of a slowing of growth of sales yet, as the graphs don't flatten
(despite a very small decrease in one of the graphs).

Describe a possible reason for the observation you made about isopropanol sales in March 2020.

On 11 March 2020 the WHO declared COVID-19 a pandemic. There was an increasing number of patients with the virus at hospitals,
restaurants, businesses and shops were either closed or had to enforce strict hygiene regulations on their premises and many citizens stocked up on
hand sanitizers to protect themselves and their families. 
All of these factors contributed to an increase in need for isopropanol and thus increased sales strongly.

Source:
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (n.d.). COVID-19 Timeline. CDC Museum. Retrieved 20/02/2024, from
    https://www.cdc.gov/museum/timeline/covid19.html#:~:text=CDC%20reports%20the%20first%20laboratory,respond%20to%20the%20emerging%20outbreak

3)
Discuss the relationship between CO2 emissions per person and GDP per capita for each continent listed in the figure legend.

The figure shows the GDP per capita in relation to the CO2 emission per person. It appears that there is almost a linear relationship between
the two. Countries with lower GDP per capita tend to have a lower CO2 emission per person. And countries with higher GDP tend to have higher CO2 emissions.

You can see that European, American and Oceanian countries emit more CO2 than African countries.

A reason could be that countries with high GDP per capita established some wealth through productions and businesses (like tech companies).
Those businesses require a lot of energy and thus cause CO2 emissions. A recent example is the AI industry. Huge cloud-servers are needed to operate
data centers to make the use of Large Language Models possible. Those create an immense amount of CO2.
Another possible reason is that the people living in countries with high GDP have an excessively high standard of living. Frequent flights, new purchases of technology
and clothes, large need for water (for luxuries like lawns, pools etc) can effect the emission of CO2 as well.

There are a few cases where the relationship between GDP and CO2 emissions is less strong.
There are a few countries (mainly sparsely populated and African or Asian) that have comparatively low CO2 emissions in comparison to their GDP.
I believe that is the case because there are many areas in Asia and Africa where people live more "off the land" than others. 
That means they produce enough food etc for themselves but don't indulge as many imports and luxuries as other countries.

Further there are countries (mainly densely populated Asian countries, and a few sparsely populated African countries) that have relatively high
C02 emissions with a comparatively low GDP. I suspect that that is the case because of developing countries in Asia (and Africa) where labour is cheap.
Because of that many companies move their productions there. Hence, the population stays relatively poor but there are high emissions because of many factories.

You can also see that many European countries have GDPs as high as American countries, but relatively less CO2 emissions.
It is possible that that is because of EU regulations to reduce climate change, and a difference in education when it comes to wastefulness.

Gordon, Noah J. (2023, February 14). Europe reminds the world what climate policy looks like. International Politics and Society. 
    Retrieved from https://ip-quarterly.com/en/europe-reminds-world-what-climate-policy-looks-like
Ritchie, H. (2020, October 23). Inequality in CO₂ emissions. Our World in Data. Retrieved from 
    https://ourworldindata.org/inequality-co2
Cho, R. (2023, June 9). AI's growing carbon footprint. Columbia Climate School. Retrieved from 
    https://news.climate.columbia.edu/2023/06/09/ais-growing-carbon-footprint/


 Practical Task 2

 What do the graphs along the diagonal represent?

    They show the amount of times that events show up. For example: Year House was built: 
    This graph shows that there are more events of "House was built" in 2000 than in any other year.
    Other example: Sale Price:
    This graph shows that there more occurances of a sale price of about 125000 than 750000.
    The exact amounts cannot be determined. But it gives a rough frame of reference.

 Are most garages in Ames larger or smaller than 1000 ft2?

    Yes

 Are the most expensive houses in Ames built before or after 1950?

    Generally after 1950. But there are a few expensive houses that were built before 1950.

 Describe the relationship between ‘Size of Living Area’ and ‘Sale Price’.

    Generally it seems like there is a linear relationship. The bigger the size of living area is the higher is the sale price.
    However, there are a few outliers, that have a relatively low sale price but a big size of living area.
    Further, but not as intense: there are a few houses that have a high price for less living area than other houses of that price.
